docs: revise docs for #225 (#233)
stjudecloud/workflows: best-practices.md

# WDL Best Practices

> All rules below should be followed by contributors to this repo. Contributors should also follow the rules enforced by Sprocket. Pull Requests which do not conform to these specifications will be asked to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All rules below should be followed by contributors to this repo. Contributors should also follow the rules enforced by [Sprocket](https://sprocket.bio/). Pull Requests which do not conform to these specifications will be asked to change.
```

  - Note that future versions of WDL will likely cause a change to this convention.
    - We plan to deprecate the `ncpu` param in favor of accessing the runtime section directly (`n_cores=~{task.runtime.cpu}`)
- Tasks which assume a file and any accessory files (e.g. a BAM and a BAI) have specific extensions and/or are in the same directory should *always* follow the conventions laid out in the `localize_files_task` example (see `template/task-examples.wdl.template`)

>   - This is to accommodate as many backends as possible

Author: > The above rules do not guarantee that two files will be localized to the same directory unless they originate from the same parent location. If you are writing a task for a tool that assumes two files will be co-located, then it is safest to manually co-locate them prior to running the tool.

Though the spec does hedge in the second part of this statement.

>   - This is to accommodate as many backends as possible

Reviewer: I guess we should leave it in then

- output file names should *always* be determined with either the `outfile_name` parameter or the `prefix` parameter.
  - `outfile_name` should be preferred if no downstream tasks/tools rely on the file name/extension
  - tasks with multiple outputs should always use the `prefix` convention
- After the input sorting rules in `sprocket lint` have been applied, follow the below rules for further sorting.
  - "sample" files come before "reference" files
  - If present, `use_all_cores` should be the last `Boolean` in its block
  - the `ncpu` parameter comes before inputs that allocate memory, which come before inputs that allocate disk space
    - This block of 2-3 inputs should come after all other inputs.
- Most tasks should have a default `maxRetries` of 1
  - Certain tasks are prone to intermittent failure (often if an internet connection is involved) and can have a higher default `maxRetries`.
- If a task uses multiple cores or is multithreaded, then at least 2 cpu should be specified.

> - All tasks should have an output

Reviewer: per convo in slack, this can be removed. Then I think we'll be good to merge this

  - `outfile_name` should be preferred if no downstream tasks/tools rely on the file name/extension
  - tasks with multiple outputs should always use the `prefix` convention
- After the input sorting rules in `style-guide.md` have been applied, follow the below rules for further sorting.
- After the input sorting rules in `sprocket lint` have been applied, follow the below rules for further sorting.
  - "sample" files come before "reference" files
  - If present, `use_all_cores` should be the last `Boolean` in its block
  - the `ncpu` parameter comes before inputs that allocate memory, which come before inputs that allocate disk space
    - This block of 2-3 inputs should come after all other inputs.
- Most tasks should have a default `maxRetries` of 1
  - Certain tasks are prone to intermittent failure (often if an internet connection is involved) and can have a higher default `maxRetries`. This value should not exceed 3.
- There are lower bounds for resource allocation
  - Memory should be allocated a minimum of 4gb
  - Disk size should be allocated a minimum of 10gb

>   - If the task is multi-cored, it should use at least 2 cpu by default

Reviewer: This line (43) should maybe be restored. I think it's generally advisable that if multi-threading is available it should be enabled by default.
I suppose a counterpoint is that most of the samtools tasks are able to run on multiple cores, but all that usually does is multi-thread [de]compression which doesn't see much speed up.

Author: I went with a very generic statement, though unfortunately it now shows below this comment.

- output file names should *always* be determined with either the `outfile_name` parameter or the `prefix` parameter.
  - `outfile_name` should be preferred if no downstream tasks/tools rely on the file name/extension
  - tasks with multiple outputs should always use the `prefix` convention
- After the input sorting rules in `sprocket lint` have been applied, follow the below rules for further sorting.
  - "sample" files come before "reference" files
  - If present, `use_all_cores` should be the last `Boolean` in its block
  - the `ncpu` parameter comes before inputs that allocate memory, which come before inputs that allocate disk space
    - This block of 2-3 inputs should come after all other inputs.
- Most tasks should have a default `maxRetries` of 1
  - Certain tasks are prone to intermittent failure (often if an internet connection is involved) and can have a higher default `maxRetries`.

> - If a task uses multiple cores or is multithreaded, then at least 2 cpu should be specified.

Author: @a-frantz - How about this?

Reviewer: LGTM

- When adding a Dockerfile to this repository, follow the below conventions
  - Create a directory under the `docker/` directory and choose an appropriate name (likely shared with the underlying tool). The `Dockerfile` should be nested under this new directory. Then create a `package.json` alongside the `Dockerfile`. The `package.json` file is required to contain two JSON fields (`name` and `version`). It can optionally contain a `revision` field.
  - Docker images should be versioned according to the following convention
    - The `version` should be shared with whatever underlying tool is being used
      - If no specific tool is named (e.g. the `util` image), default to SemVer. Ignore the next 3 bullet points.
    - The revision should start with zero (`0`)
      - If the Docker image gets updated, *without* updating the base tool's version, increment the number by one
      - If the Docker image gets updated, *including* updating the base tool's version, revert back to zero
- general purpose tasks can use the `util` image maintained in this repo

> - The `description` should be in active voice, beginning the first sentence with a verb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `description` key in WDL meta sections should be in active voice, beginning the first sentence with a verb
```

>   - Each task/workflow is _doing_ something. The first sentence should be a succinct description of what that "something" is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Each task/workflow is _doing_ something. The first sentence should be a succinct description of what that "something" is.
  - The `description` key should be succinct. Generally, one sentence about 100 characters long is appropriate.
```
note: I'm still playing with how long the strings rendered as descriptions should be on the docs site. 100 is approximate at this point in time.

> - If documenting a workflow, task, input, or output and you need to be more verbose than is appropriate in a `description:` field, you may include _in addition_ an `external_help:` key with a URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If documenting a workflow, task, input, or output and you need to be more verbose than is appropriate in a `description` field, you may include _in addition_ a `help` key with extended prose or an `external_help` key with a URL
```

>   - `external_help` is _not_ a substitute for internal documentation, although it may allow the internal documentation to be briefer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - the presence of `help` or `external_help` is _not_ a substitute for a `description`
```
